README.md, before:

# Control Claude Code on Discord

> Run Claude Code on remote servers and interact via Discord channels.

Run [Claude Code](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/overview) sessions on a remote server (like an HPC cluster) and control it entirely through Discord. No SSH terminal needed — just chat.

**How it works:** You create a category in Discord (e.g. "Claude"). Any channel you create under that category automatically gets its own Claude Code session running on your server. Type a message in the channel, and Claude Code executes it — reading files, running commands, editing code — all from Discord. When Claude needs permission to do something dangerous, it asks via emoji reactions. Conversations persist across bot restarts, so you can pick up where you left off.

## Features

- **Category-based routing** — Channels under a specific Discord category automatically get their own Claude Code session
- **Permission system** — 3-option reactions (1️⃣ once / 2️⃣ allow for session / 3️⃣ deny) for tool approvals, with read-only tools auto-approved
- **Session persistence** — Conversations resume across bot restarts
- **Multi-token support** — Configure multiple OAuth tokens and switch between them per user via DMs
- **Slash commands** — `/reset`, `/model`, `/compact`, `/interrupt`, `/debug`, `/context`
- **Text commands** — `!reset`, `!interrupt`, `!debug`, `!help`
- **DM commands** — Send tokens, `use <alias>`, `tokens`, `help`
- **File attachments** — Upload files in Discord and Claude can access them
- **Message chunking** — Long responses are automatically split to fit Discord's 2000-character limit

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js 18+**
- **Claude Code CLI** (`npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`)
- **Discord bot** with Message Content Intent enabled

## Setup

### Step 1: Create a Discord Bot

1. Go to the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Click **New Application** → name it (e.g., "Claude Code")
3. Go to **Bot** → enable these **Privileged Gateway Intents**:
   - ✅ Message Content Intent
   - ✅ Server Members Intent
4. Copy the **Bot Token** — you'll need it in Step 4

### Step 2: Invite the Bot to Your Server

1. Go to **OAuth2** → **URL Generator**
2. Select scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`
3. Select permissions: `Send Messages`, `Read Message History`, `Attach Files`, `Add Reactions`, `Use Slash Commands`
4. Open the generated URL to invite the bot

### Step 3: Create a Category in Discord

In your Discord server, create a category (e.g., "Claude"). Any channel you create under this category will automatically get its own Claude Code session.

### Step 4: Install on Your Server

SSH into the machine where you want Claude Code to run (your cluster, remote server, or local machine):

```bash
ssh your-server  # skip if running locally

# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/TaiMingLu/control-claude-code-on-discord.git
cd control-claude-code-on-discord

# Get a Claude Code OAuth token (headless, no browser needed)
claude setup-token
# This prints a token like sk-ant-oat01-...

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
nano .env
```

Fill in your `.env`:
```env
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=your-bot-token-from-step-1
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN=sk-ant-oat01-your-token-from-above
CATEGORY_NAME=Claude
WORKING_DIRECTORY=/path/to/your/workspace
```

> **On shared clusters:** Set `ORCHESTRATOR_PORT` to a random high port (10000–65535) to avoid collisions with other users.

### Step 5: Build and Start

```bash
cd app
npm install
npm run build:main

# Recommended: run in tmux so it survives SSH disconnects
tmux new -s claude-bot
npm start
# Detach with: Ctrl+B, then D
# Reattach later: tmux attach -t claude-bot
```

### Step 6: Connect via Discord

1. The bot prints a **session token** on startup (e.g., `F6690D7A`)
2. **DM the bot** with the token to link your Discord account
3. Create a channel under your category (from Step 3)
4. Start chatting — Claude Code is now running on your server!

> **Note:** The session token only needs to be sent once. After that, your account stays linked across bot restarts.

## Configuration

All options go in `.env` at the repo root (copy from `.env.example`):

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN` | ✅ | — | Bot token from Discord Developer Portal |
| `CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN` | ✅ | — | OAuth token from `claude setup-token` |
| `CATEGORY_NAME` | | `Claude` | Discord category name to watch |
| `WORKING_DIRECTORY` | | `.` | Working directory for Claude Code sessions |
| `ORCHESTRATOR_PORT` | | `3000` | Port for internal orchestrator communication |
| `CLAUDE_MODEL` | | `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929` | Model to use |
| `CONTEXT_WINDOW_MAX` | | `200000` | Max context tokens (for `/context` stats) |

### Multiple Tokens

You can configure multiple OAuth tokens with aliases:

```env
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN_default=sk-ant-oat01-your-default-token
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN_work=sk-ant-oat01-your-work-token
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN_personal=sk-ant-oat01-your-personal-token
```

Users can switch tokens by DMing the bot: `tokens` to list, `use <alias>` to switch.

## Architecture

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           Remote Server                              │
│                                                                      │
│  ┌─────────────────────┐      ┌────────────────────────────────────┐ │
│  │   Main Orchestrator │      │  Claude Code + MCP (Channel #1)   │ │
│  │   (Discord Gateway  │◄────►│  - PTY terminal (node-pty)        │ │
│  │    Bot)             │      │  - discord-messenger MCP server    │ │
│  │                     │      └────────────────────────────────────┘ │
│  │  - Session tokens   │      ┌────────────────────────────────────┐ │
│  │  - Channel mapping  │◄────►│  Claude Code + MCP (Channel #2)   │ │
│  │  - Message routing  │      └────────────────────────────────────┘ │
│  │  - Permission mgmt  │                                            │
│  └──────────┬──────────┘                                            │
│             │ WebSocket                                              │
└─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
              ▼
       [ Discord API ]
```

Each channel gets its own Claude Code process running in a PTY (via `node-pty`). The orchestrator routes Discord messages to the correct session and handles tool permission requests via emoji reactions. An MCP server (`discord-messenger`) lets Claude Code send messages back to Discord.

## Commands Reference

### Slash Commands (in channels)

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/reset` | Start a new conversation |
| `/model` | Change the Claude model |
| `/compact` | Compact conversation context |
| `/interrupt` | Interrupt Claude (Ctrl+C) |
| `/debug` | Show raw terminal output |
| `/context` | Show context window usage |

### Text Commands (in channels)

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `!reset` / `!new` | Start a new conversation |
| `!interrupt` / `!stop` | Interrupt Claude |
| `!debug` | Show terminal output |
| `!help` | Show available commands |

### DM Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `<token>` | Authenticate with a session token |
| `tokens` | List available OAuth tokens |
| `use <alias>` | Switch to a different token |
| `help` | Show DM commands |

## Troubleshooting

### Bot not responding in channels
- Verify the channel is under the correct category (check `CATEGORY_NAME`)
- Ensure **Message Content Intent** is enabled in Discord Developer Portal
- Check logs for errors

### "Invalid API key" error
```bash
claude -p "hi"          # Test authentication
claude setup-token      # Regenerate token if needed
```

### Permission reactions not working
- Make sure the bot has **Add Reactions** permission
- The user who sent the message must react (not someone else)

### Session not persisting
- Session data is stored in `.minion-sessions.json` and `.minion-channel-sessions.json`
- These files must be writable in the repo root

## Credits

- Slack version [by Tony](https://github.com/tonychenxyz/claude-code-minion-public)

## License

MIT

Commit message:

fix: clarify Step 5 runs on server

README.md, after:

# Control Claude Code on Discord

> Run Claude Code on remote servers and interact via Discord channels.

Run [Claude Code](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/overview) sessions on a remote server (like an HPC cluster) and control it entirely through Discord. No SSH terminal needed — just chat.

**How it works:** You create a category in Discord (e.g. "Claude"). Any channel you create under that category automatically gets its own Claude Code session running on your server. Type a message in the channel, and Claude Code executes it — reading files, running commands, editing code — all from Discord. When Claude needs permission to do something dangerous, it asks via emoji reactions. Conversations persist across bot restarts, so you can pick up where you left off.

## Features

- **Category-based routing** — Channels under a specific Discord category automatically get their own Claude Code session
- **Permission system** — 3-option reactions (1️⃣ once / 2️⃣ allow for session / 3️⃣ deny) for tool approvals, with read-only tools auto-approved
- **Session persistence** — Conversations resume across bot restarts
- **Multi-token support** — Configure multiple OAuth tokens and switch between them per user via DMs
- **Slash commands** — `/reset`, `/model`, `/compact`, `/interrupt`, `/debug`, `/context`
- **Text commands** — `!reset`, `!interrupt`, `!debug`, `!help`
- **DM commands** — Send tokens, `use <alias>`, `tokens`, `help`
- **File attachments** — Upload files in Discord and Claude can access them
- **Message chunking** — Long responses are automatically split to fit Discord's 2000-character limit

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js 18+**
- **Claude Code CLI** (`npm install -g @anthropic-ai/claude-code`)
- **Discord bot** with Message Content Intent enabled

## Setup

### Step 1: Create a Discord Bot

1. Go to the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Click **New Application** → name it (e.g., "Claude Code")
3. Go to **Bot** → enable these **Privileged Gateway Intents**:
   - ✅ Message Content Intent
   - ✅ Server Members Intent
4. Copy the **Bot Token** — you'll need it in Step 4

### Step 2: Invite the Bot to Your Server

1. Go to **OAuth2** → **URL Generator**
2. Select scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`
3. Select permissions: `Send Messages`, `Read Message History`, `Attach Files`, `Add Reactions`, `Use Slash Commands`
4. Open the generated URL to invite the bot

### Step 3: Create a Category in Discord

In your Discord server, create a category (e.g., "Claude"). Any channel you create under this category will automatically get its own Claude Code session.

### Step 4: Install on Your Server

SSH into the machine where you want Claude Code to run (your cluster, remote server, or local machine):

```bash
ssh your-server  # skip if running locally

# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/TaiMingLu/control-claude-code-on-discord.git
cd control-claude-code-on-discord

# Get a Claude Code OAuth token (headless, no browser needed)
claude setup-token
# This prints a token like sk-ant-oat01-...

# Configure environment
cp .env.example .env
nano .env
```

Fill in your `.env`:
```env
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=your-bot-token-from-step-1
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN=sk-ant-oat01-your-token-from-above
CATEGORY_NAME=Claude
WORKING_DIRECTORY=/path/to/your/workspace
```

> **On shared clusters:** Set `ORCHESTRATOR_PORT` to a random high port (10000–65535) to avoid collisions with other users.

### Step 5: Build and Start (on your server)

Still on the same server you SSH'd into in Step 4:

```bash
cd app
npm install
npm run build:main

# Run in tmux so the bot keeps running after you disconnect from SSH
tmux new -s claude-bot
npm start
# Detach with: Ctrl+B, then D
# Reattach later: tmux attach -t claude-bot
```

### Step 6: Connect via Discord

1. The bot prints a **session token** on startup (e.g., `F6690D7A`)
2. **DM the bot** with the token to link your Discord account
3. Create a channel under your category (from Step 3)
4. Start chatting — Claude Code is now running on your server!

> **Note:** The session token only needs to be sent once. After that, your account stays linked across bot restarts.

## Configuration

All options go in `.env` at the repo root (copy from `.env.example`):

| Variable | Required | Default | Description |
|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN` | ✅ | — | Bot token from Discord Developer Portal |
| `CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN` | ✅ | — | OAuth token from `claude setup-token` |
| `CATEGORY_NAME` | | `Claude` | Discord category name to watch |
| `WORKING_DIRECTORY` | | `.` | Working directory for Claude Code sessions |
| `ORCHESTRATOR_PORT` | | `3000` | Port for internal orchestrator communication |
| `CLAUDE_MODEL` | | `claude-sonnet-4-5-20250929` | Model to use |
| `CONTEXT_WINDOW_MAX` | | `200000` | Max context tokens (for `/context` stats) |

### Multiple Tokens

You can configure multiple OAuth tokens with aliases:

```env
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN_default=sk-ant-oat01-your-default-token
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN_work=sk-ant-oat01-your-work-token
CLAUDE_CODE_OAUTH_TOKEN_personal=sk-ant-oat01-your-personal-token
```

Users can switch tokens by DMing the bot: `tokens` to list, `use <alias>` to switch.

## Architecture

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           Remote Server                              │
│                                                                      │
│  ┌─────────────────────┐      ┌────────────────────────────────────┐ │
│  │   Main Orchestrator │      │  Claude Code + MCP (Channel #1)   │ │
│  │   (Discord Gateway  │◄────►│  - PTY terminal (node-pty)        │ │
│  │    Bot)             │      │  - discord-messenger MCP server    │ │
│  │                     │      └────────────────────────────────────┘ │
│  │  - Session tokens   │      ┌────────────────────────────────────┐ │
│  │  - Channel mapping  │◄────►│  Claude Code + MCP (Channel #2)   │ │
│  │  - Message routing  │      └────────────────────────────────────┘ │
│  │  - Permission mgmt  │                                            │
│  └──────────┬──────────┘                                            │
│             │ WebSocket                                              │
└─────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
              ▼
       [ Discord API ]
```

Each channel gets its own Claude Code process running in a PTY (via `node-pty`). The orchestrator routes Discord messages to the correct session and handles tool permission requests via emoji reactions. An MCP server (`discord-messenger`) lets Claude Code send messages back to Discord.

## Commands Reference

### Slash Commands (in channels)

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/reset` | Start a new conversation |
| `/model` | Change the Claude model |
| `/compact` | Compact conversation context |
| `/interrupt` | Interrupt Claude (Ctrl+C) |
| `/debug` | Show raw terminal output |
| `/context` | Show context window usage |

### Text Commands (in channels)

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `!reset` / `!new` | Start a new conversation |
| `!interrupt` / `!stop` | Interrupt Claude |
| `!debug` | Show terminal output |
| `!help` | Show available commands |

### DM Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `<token>` | Authenticate with a session token |
| `tokens` | List available OAuth tokens |
| `use <alias>` | Switch to a different token |
| `help` | Show DM commands |

## Troubleshooting

### Bot not responding in channels
- Verify the channel is under the correct category (check `CATEGORY_NAME`)
- Ensure **Message Content Intent** is enabled in Discord Developer Portal
- Check logs for errors

### "Invalid API key" error
```bash
claude -p "hi"          # Test authentication
claude setup-token      # Regenerate token if needed
```

### Permission reactions not working
- Make sure the bot has **Add Reactions** permission
- The user who sent the message must react (not someone else)

### Session not persisting
- Session data is stored in `.minion-sessions.json` and `.minion-channel-sessions.json`
- These files must be writable in the repo root

## Credits

- Slack version [by Tony](https://github.com/tonychenxyz/claude-code-minion-public)

## License

MIT
